.TH GSR 1 "February 2026" "GSR 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gsr \- Gerald's Screen Recorder, a lightweight, motion-optimized screen recorder component
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gsr
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgsr\fR is a lightweight, motion-optimized screen recorder for Linux. It significantly reduces disk space and CPU usage by recording frames only when visual changes are detected on-screen, or through specific hardware triggers such as mouse clicks and keystrokes.
.PP
Running \fBgsr\fR with no arguments will launch the Graphical User Interface (GUI), giving access to a streamlined, interactive settings panel. Providing any configuration flags will automatically launch \fBgsr\fR in a headless Command Line Interface (CLI) mode, ideal for scripting or background recording.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show the help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-save\fR
Save the provided CLI arguments to the permanent GUI configuration file. Future GUI launches will default to these settings.
.SS CAPTURE SETTINGS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fps\fR \fIFPS\fR
Override the maximum capture frequency (frames per second). Valid range: 1 to 60.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sens\fR \fISENSITIVITY\fR
Override the motion detection Sensitivity threshold. Valid range: 0 to 100. Higher values make the recorder more sensitive to minute visual changes.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tiles\fR \fITILE_DIVISIONS\fR
Override the grid granularity for motion detection algorithms. For example, \fI1\fR treats the screen as a single full-screen tile.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quality\fR \fIQUALITY\fR
Override the JPEG output compression quality. Valid range: 1 to 100.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Override the directory paths where session recording frames are saved.
.SS HARDWARE TRIGGERS
These boolean flags dictate whether \fBgsr\fR will force a frame capture upon receiving specific input events, bypassing the visual motion detection algorithm. These overrides support disabling via the \fB\-\-no\-\fR prefix (e.g., \fB\-\-no\-keystroke\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-keystroke\fR, \fB\-\-no\-keystroke\fR
Enable or disable forced frame capture on any keyboard key press.
.TP
\fB\-\-mouse\-click\fR, \fB\-\-no\-mouse\-click\fR
Enable or disable forced frame capture on mouse clicks.
.TP
\fB\-\-mouse\-scroll\fR, \fB\-\-no\-mouse\-scroll\fR
Enable or disable forced frame capture on mouse scroll wheel activity.
.TP
\fB\-\-mouse\-move\fR, \fB\-\-no\-mouse\-move\fR
Enable or disable forced frame capture on mouse pointer movement.
.SS CURSOR OVERLAY
.TP
\fB\-\-show\-cursor\fR, \fB\-\-no\-show\-cursor\fR
Enable or disable drawing a customized visible cursor overlay onto the recorded frames.
.TP
\fB\-\-cursor\-size\fR \fISIZE\fR
Override the size footprint of the cursor overlay. Valid range: 5 to 50 pixels.
.TP
\fB\-\-cursor\-style\fR {\fIdot\fR, \fItarget\fR, \fIpointer\fR}
Override the visual style of the drawn cursor overlay.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Launch the GUI interface:
.RS 4
gsr
.RE
.PP
.B Record headlessly with a 90% JPEG quality, ignoring any saved GUI presets:
.RS 4
gsr \-q 90
.RE
.PP
.B Record headlessly, forcing captures on keystrokes but ignoring mouse movements, and save this configuration as the new default for the GUI:
.RS 4
gsr \-\-keystroke \-\-no\-mouse\-move \-\-save
.RE
.SH WORKFLOW
\fBgsr\fR does not produce traditional video files (like .mp4 or .mkv). Instead, it outputs a highly efficient \fBimage sequence\fR consisting of JPEG frames. 
.PP
This sequence can be directly imported into professional video editing software. For example, in \fBDaVinci Resolve\fR, you can import the entire directory of frames as a single media clip, which perfectly preserves the exact variable timing of your workflow.
.PP
Alternatively, you can manually compile the image sequence into a standard video file using \fBFFmpeg\fR:
.RS 4
ffmpeg -framerate 30 -i frame_%05d.jpg -c:v libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p output.mp4
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Gerald Snyman.
.PP
Website: gsvv.co.za/software/gsr
.br
Contact: gsvvcoza@gmail.com
